---
layout: post

title: CodeCatatlyst promise-as3 Library
subtitle: "The tutorial I wish I'd had"
cover_image: blog-cover.jpg

excerpt: "A quick overview of using the CodeCatalyst promise-as3 library and all of the tips I wish I'd had when I picked it up."

author:
  name: Eric Kenney
  bio: Web Developer
  image: ks.png
---

##CodeCatalyst's promise-as3 Help I Wish I'd Had
For a project at work recently, we found the need to adapt a promise-driven Javascript file into AS3. After a little bit of research we settled on CodeCatalyst's promise-as3 library. I say little bit of research because there's really not very many libraries to look into. And the ones that do exist have little to no documentation. Because of that, I decided to put together what I've found for my own and others' benefit.

###Starting with promise-as3

The first thing you will obviously need to do is download the library from github.com/CodeCatalyst/promise-as3 and put it in some lib directory in your flash project. Then import the Deferred and Promise classes like so:

{% highlight as3 %}
import com.codecatalyst.promise.Deferred;
import com.codecatalyst.promise.Promise;
{% endhighlight %}

One thing to note about promise-as3's implementation of promises, is that you need to instantiate a Deferred object from which you will pull a Promise object.

    var deferred : Deferred = new Deferred();
    var promise : Promise = deferred.promise;

This is different from JS's built-in promises, which bypass deferreds entirely.

###Adding fulfill and reject functions (callback and errback)

In the new JS implementation of promises, the promise constructor takes a function as a parameter. That function itself takes fulfill and reject functions as arguments. In AS3, it would look something like this:

    {% highlight as3 %}
    public function doSomethingAsync(url) {
      var promise : Promise = new Promise( function (fulfill, reject) {
        setTimeout(function () {
          reject( new Error('Timeout' ));
        }, 10000);
      }
    }
    {% endhighlight %}

This is NOT how it is done with the promise-as3 library.

###Passing Arguments

